---
layout: post
title:  "a painful freedom, part two: enough"
quote:  "Although I doubt my redemption, He sees me as reedemable."
image:
      url:  /assets/images/enough2.JPG
video:  false
comments: true
theme_color:  302F2D
---

# <center>a painful freedom, part two</center>  

***

   <center>enough</center>

***

I believe in this one truth.  

   That makes it enough.  

   And that makes me enough.  

   Once, I was part of the world; and even though it still tempts me,  

   This truth makes the unforeseen future enough.  

   I see a promise; and that makes it enough.  

   I recognize and I realize a solidified truth that I had uncovered  

   Yet struggle to maintain from time to time.  

   Still I must let this truth design me and magnify the light in me.  

   So I must refuse to let the world define me and cast its shadows within me.  

   Still I yearn for the silence that allows me to speak against my doubts.  

   So I wait for this sleep in order for the silence to overcome my doubts.  

   I am grateful for these doubts for it challenges me to keep fighting for the truth.  

   And that makes it enough.  

   I have devoured the truth  

   Yet the darkness knows me too well  

   And tries to eat away all I have worked hard to keep.  

   The pain and the trouble should be worth it  

   Yet I shiver at the thought of losing all I have worked hard to hold on to.  

   Is this enough?  

   I have this freedom  

   And at times, it may be full of pain  

   I see it as enough.  

   He sees my worth, and He sees the value in me.  

   And that should be enough.  

   Although I may doubt my redemption  

   He sees me as redeemable.  

   I know this because He has not given up on me.  

   This makes waiting enough.

