---
layout: post
title:  Will Pike
quote:  "The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes."
image:
      url:  /assets/images/Will-1.JPG
video:  false
comments: true
theme_color:  302F2D
---

## <center>"THEY ARE THE ONES"</center>

***

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/Will-2.JPG" %}

***

### <center>2017</center>

#### <center>WILL PIKE</center>

***

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/Will-3.JPG" %}

Will and I were not immediate friends when we first met back in 2013 into the Fall semesters of my Junior year and his Sophomore year. Even though we were part of the same d-group and bible talk during my two years in the campus ministry, it definitely took time to get to where our friendship is at today.

***

Speaking of a conviction he had been working on, Will refers to 1 Thessalonians 5:21.

***

<center>”test them all; hold on to what is good,”</center>

***

As a very stubborn person, it was definitely great to understand from someone else what it means not to see things as one-sided, not to immediately see the bad in situations, and not to make conclusions without fixing my heart and my eyes on what is good and Godly in order to seek out the truth.

***

I really admire Will’s wisdom and his unwavering faith. While referring to what he’s been reading in the Bible, Will speaks about the struggles Elijah had to push through yet Elijah was so steadfast in his faith. No matter the situation and however unhappy we may feel and however unfulfilled things may seem to us, it does not mean God is not looking out for us or taking care of us.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/Will-4.JPG" %}

They Are the Ones is about people who influence or have influenced me to do great things and to change the way I look at my life. Will adds the spontaneity and the adventure that I was missing. He forces to step out of my comfort zone and to see things through a different lens. For a while I had kept my life and my faith in a safe pocket, and sometimes I still do. But because of Will, I can seek adventure in my life with confidence and in my walk, seek God with a surrendered and wild heart.

***

One adventure that he and I both share is Iceland and it was one of the most unbelievable experiences. Something that creates a joy within me is when I am able to share the same awestruck feeling at the same moment. And that’s what that Iceland was. To acknowledge the beauty that God laid out for us to see; it was some thing so alien yet so familiar because it brought us closer to each other. I’ve learned that God works in unexpected ways and a friendship with Will is one of those things that I’ve come to appreciate and I’ve come to understand as something I need.

***

He is part of a brotherhood that helped me understand my capabilities and a longevity I should yearn for as a disciple during a time that I was hard. I have so much left to learn and so much left to see, and I’m not going to learn and grow without surrounding myself with people like Will. I am grateful for Will’s friendship, especially during this past year. His consistent loyalty inspires me to continue to connect with other people and to invest in these relationships.

***

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/Will-5.JPG" %}

***

<center>”Climb the mountains and get their good tidings. Nature's peace will flow into you as sunshine flows into trees. The winds will blow their own freshness into you, and the storms their energy, while cares will drop away from you like the leaves of Autumn.”</center>
#### <center>John Muir</center>

***

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/Will-6.JPG" %}


***

Last year, I had gotten a tattoo of three mountains. Into three years of being disciple, at the time, it symbolized the obstacles I faced, the challenges I had to push through and the doubts and the underestimations I had put on myself. 

***

But those three mountains also signify three people I have come to know that continue to inspire me, to push me and to allow me to keep climbing and see the mountains not as a challenge but as a way to get closer to heaven. They help me see and understand God during times when I can’t.
